VisDrone2018-MOT Benchmark Toolkit This is the documentation of the VisDrone2018 competitions development kit for multiple object tracking (MOT) challenge. This code library is for research purpose only, which is modified based on the toolkits in MOTChallenge  and PASCAL VOC . The code is tested on the Windows 10 and macOS Sierra 10.12.6 systems, with the Matlab 2013a/2014b/2016b/2017b platforms. If you have any questions, please contact us (email:tju.drone.vision@gmail.com). If you use our toolkit or dataset, please cite our paper as follows: @article{zhuvisdrone2018, For MOT competition, there are three sets of data and labels: training data, validation data,
and test-challenge data. There is no overlap between the three sets. The challenge aims to recover the object trajectories with (Task 4B) or without (Task 4A) the detection results in each video frame. Notably, in the VisDrone2018 Challenge, we only consider five object categories in multi-object tracking, i.e., car, bus, truck, pedestrian, and van. We manually annotate the bounding boxes of different objects and ignored regiones in each video frame. Annotations on the training and validation sets are publicly available. The dataset can be downloaded at The notes for the folders: evalMOT.m is the main function to evaluate your tracker put the source codes in ./trackers/ (please refer the source codes of GOG tracker) modify the dataset path and result path use "isSeqDisplay" to show the groundtruth and detections select the evaluated task, i.e, Task 4A without detection results, Task 4B with detection results evaluateTrackA.m is the main function to evaluate your tracker using the measures in Task 4A without detection results. evaluateTrackB.m is the main function to evaluate your tracker using the measures in Task 4B with the Faster RCNN detection results. MOT Submission Format Submission of the results will consist of TXT files with one line per predicted object.It looks as follows: The sample submission of the GOG tracker can be found in our website.  A. Milan, L. Leal-Taixe, K. Schindler, D. Cremers, S. Roth, and I. Reid, "Multiple Object Tracking Benchmark 2016",https://motchallenge.net/results/MOT16/.  E. Park, W. Liu, O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, F.-F. Li, and A. Berg, "Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge 2017",http://imagenet.org/challenges/LSVRC/2017 Version History
1.0.2 - Jul 1, 2019