Citation. In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Pages retrieved from the following Wikipedia contributors on 2025-11-03 05:11:15.044760
Root page: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing

Link 1: 24-hour news cycle
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/24-hour_news_cycle
Summary: The 24-hour news cycle (or 24/7 news cycle) is the 24-hour investigation and reporting of news, concomitant with fast-paced lifestyles. The vast news resources available in recent decades have increased competition for audience and advertiser attention, prompting media providers to deliver the latest news in the most compelling manner in order to remain ahead of competitors. Television, radio, print, online and mobile app news media all have many suppliers that want to be relevant to their audiences and deliver news first.
A complete news cycle consists of the media reporting on some event, followed by the media reporting on public and other reactions to the earlier reports. The advent of 24-hour cable and satellite television news channels and, in more recent times, of news sources on the World Wide Web (including blogs), considerably shortened this process.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 2: Account-based marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Account-based_marketing
Summary: Account-based marketing (ABM), also known as key account marketing, is a business-to-business (B2B) marketing strategy in which companies focus resources on a defined set of high-value accounts, treating each as a distinct market rather than pursuing broad-based outreach.
The term was coined in 2003 by Bev Burgess at the Information Technology Services Marketing Association (ITSMA).
This formalized earlier practices of key account management and industrial marketing, positioning ABM as a structured framework for aligning sales and marketing around specific accounts.
Today, ABM is widely adopted by large B2B organizations, and analyst surveys report that most practitioners consider it to deliver higher ROI than traditional demand generation approaches. Account-based marketing is typically employed in enterprise-level sales organizations.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 3: Activism
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Activism
Summary: Activism consists of efforts to promote, impede, direct or intervene in social, political, economic or environmental reform with the desire to make changes in society toward a perceived common good. Forms of activism range from mandate building in a community (including writing letters to newspapers), petitioning elected officials, running or contributing to a political campaign, preferential patronage (or boycott) of businesses, and demonstrative forms of activism like rallies, street marches, strikes, sit-ins, or hunger strikes.
Activism may be performed on a day-to-day basis in a wide variety of ways, including through the creation of art (artivism), computer hacking (hacktivism), or simply in how one chooses to spend their money (economic activism). For example, the refusal to buy clothes or other merchandise from a company as a protest against the exploitation of workers by that company could be considered an expression of activism. However, the term commonly refers to a form of collective action, in which numerous individuals coordinate an act of protest together. Collective action that is purposeful, organized, and sustained over a period of time becomes known as a social movement.
Historically, activists have used literature, including pamphlets, tracts, and books to disseminate or propagate their messages and attempt to persuade their readers of the justice of their cause. Research has now begun to explore how contemporary activist groups use social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action combining politics with technology. Left-wing and right-wing online activists often use different tactics. Hashtag activism and offline protest are more common on the left. Working strategically with partisan media, migrating to alternative platforms, and manipulation of mainstream media are more common on the right (in the United States). In addition, the perception of increased left-wing activism in science and academia may decrease conservative trust in science and motivate some forms of conservative activism, including on college campuses. Some scholars have also shown how the influence of very wealthy Americans is a form of activism.
Separating activism and terrorism can be difficult and has been described as a 'fine line'.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 4: Adam Smith
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Smith
Summary: Adam Smith (baptised 16 June  [O.S. 5 June] 1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist and philosopher who was a pioneer in the field of political economy and key figure during the Scottish Enlightenment. Seen by many as the "father of economics" or the "father of capitalism", he is primarily known for two classic works: The Theory of Moral Sentiments (1759) and An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations (1776). The latter, often abbreviated as The Wealth of Nations, is regarded as his magnum opus, marking the inception of modern economic scholarship as a comprehensive system and an academic discipline. Smith refuses to explain the distribution of wealth and power in terms of divine will and instead appeals to natural, political, social, economic, legal, environmental and technological factors, as well as the interactions among them. The work is notable for its contribution to economic theory, particularly in its exposition of concept of absolute advantage.
Born in Kirkcaldy, Fife, Smith studied social philosophy at the University of Glasgow and at Balliol College, Oxford, where he was one of the first students to benefit from scholarships set up by John Snell. Following his graduation, he delivered a successful series of public lectures at the University of Edinburgh, that met with acclaim. This led to a collaboration with David Hume during the Scottish Enlightenment. Smith obtained a professorship at Glasgow, where he taught moral philosophy. During this period, he wrote and published The Theory of Moral Sentiments. Subsequently, he assumed a tutoring position that facilitated travel throughout Europe, where he encountered intellectual figures of his era.
In response to the prevailing policy of safeguarding national markets and merchants through the reduction of imports and the augmentation of exports, a practice that came to be known as mercantilism, Smith laid the foundational principles of classical free-market economic theory. The Wealth of Nations was a precursor to the modern academic discipline of economics. In this and other works, he developed the concept of division of labour and expounded upon how rational self-interest and competition can lead to economic prosperity. Smith was controversial in his day and his general approach and writing style were often satirised by writers such as Horace Walpole.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 5: Adam Smith Institute
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Smith_Institute
Summary: The Adam Smith Institute (ASI) is a UK-based neoliberal think tank and lobbying group, named after Adam Smith, a Scottish moral philosopher and classical economist. The Institute advocates free market and classical liberal ideas, primarily via the formation of policy options with regard to public choice theory, which political decision makers seek to develop upon. ASI President Madsen Pirie has sought to describe the activity of the organisation as "[w]e propose things which people regard as being on the edge of lunacy. The next thing you know, they're on the edge of policy".
The ASI formed the primary intellectual force behind the privatisation of state-owned industries during the premiership of Margaret Thatcher, and alongside the Centre for Policy Studies and Institute of Economic Affairs advanced a neoliberal approach toward public policy on privatisation, taxation, education and healthcare. A number of the policies presented by the organisation were adopted by the administrations of John Major and Tony Blair and members of the ASI have also advised non-United Kingdom governments. Beyond policy development, the organisation advocates free market ideas through the publication and distribution of literature, the promotion of Tax Freedom Day, the hosting of speaker events for students and young people, media appearances and blogging.
The ASI is rated as one of the least transparent think tanks in the United Kingdom in relation to funding and received 3% of its funding from the tobacco industry in 2011.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 6: Advertising
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising
Summary: Advertising is the practice and techniques employed to bring attention to a product or service. Advertising aims to present a product or service in terms of utility, advantages, and qualities of interest to consumers. It is typically used to promote a specific good or service, but there are a wide range of uses, the most common being commercial advertisement.
Commercial advertisements often seek to generate increased consumption of their products or services through "branding", which associates a product name or image with certain qualities in the minds of consumers. On the other hand, ads that intend to elicit an immediate sale are known as direct-response advertising. Non-commercial entities that advertise more than consumer products or services include political parties, interest groups, religious organizations, and governmental agencies. Non-profit organizations may use free modes of persuasion, such as a public service announcement. Advertising may also help to reassure employees or shareholders that a company is viable or successful.
In the 19th century, soap businesses were among the first to employ large-scale advertising campaigns. Thomas J. Barratt was hired by Pears to be its brand manager—the first of its kind—and in addition to creating slogans and images, he recruited West End stage actress and socialite Lillie Langtry to become the poster girl for Pears, making her the first celebrity to endorse a commercial product. Modern advertising originated with the techniques introduced with tobacco advertising in the 1920s, most significantly with the campaigns of Edward Bernays, considered the founder of modern, "Madison Avenue" advertising.
Worldwide spending on advertising in 2015 amounted to an estimated US$529.43 billion. Advertising's projected distribution for 2017 was 40.4% on TV, 33.3% on digital, 9% on newspapers, 6.9% on magazines, 5.8% on outdoor, and 4.3% on radio. Internationally, the largest ("Big Five") advertising agency groups are Omnicom, WPP, Publicis, Interpublic, and Dentsu.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 7: Advertising agency
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_agency
Summary: An advertising agency, often referred to as a creative agency or an ad agency, is a business dedicated to creating, planning, and handling advertising and sometimes other forms of promotion and marketing for its clients. An ad agency is generally independent of the client; it may be an internal department or agency that provides an outside point of view to the effort of selling the client's products or services, or an outside firm. An agency can also handle overall marketing and branding strategies promotions for its clients, which may include sales as well.
Typical ad agency clients include businesses and corporations, non-profit organizations and private agencies. Agencies may be hired to produce television advertisements, radio advertisements, online advertising, out-of-home advertising, mobile marketing, and AR advertising, as part of an advertising campaign.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 8: Advertising mail
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_mail
Summary: Advertising mail, also known as direct mail (by its senders), junk mail (by its recipients), mailshot or admail (North America), letterbox drop or letterboxing (Australia), is the delivery of advertising material to recipients of postal mail. The delivery of advertising mail forms a large and growing service for many postal services, and direct-mail marketing forms a significant portion of the direct marketing industry. Some organizations attempt to help people opt out of receiving advertising mail, in many cases motivated by a concern over its negative environmental impact.
Advertising mail includes advertising circulars, plastic mailers, coupon envelopes (Money Mailer, Valpak), catalogs,  CDs, "pre-approved" credit card applications, and other commercial merchandising materials delivered to homes and businesses. It may be addressed to pre-selected individuals, or unaddressed and delivered on a neighbourhood-by-neighbourhood basis.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 9: Advertising management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_management
Summary: Advertising management is how a company carefully plans and controls its advertising to reach its ideal customers and convince them to buy.
Marketers use different types of advertising. Brand advertising is defined as a non-personal communication message placed in a paid, mass medium designed to persuade target consumers of a product or service benefits in an effort to induce them to make a purchase. Corporate advertising refers to paid messages designed to communicate the corporation's values to influence public opinion. Yet other types of advertising such as not-for-profit advertising and political advertising present special challenges that require different strategies and approaches.
Advertising management is a complex process that involves making many layered decisions including developing advertising strategies, setting an advertising budget, setting advertising objectives, determining the target market, media strategy (which involves media planning), developing the message strategy, and evaluating the overall effectiveness of the advertising effort.) Advertising management may also involve media buying.
Advertising management is a complex process. However, at its simplest level, advertising management can be reduced to four key decision areas:

Target audience definition: Who do we want to talk to?
Message (or creative) strategy: What do we want to say to them?
Media strategy: How will we reach them?
Measuring advertising effectiveness: How do we know our messages were received in the form intended and with the desired outcomes?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 10: Advertising slogan
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_slogan
Summary: Advertising slogans are short phrases used in advertising campaigns to generate publicity and unify a company's marketing strategy. The phrases may be used to attract attention to a distinctive product feature or reinforce a company's brand.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 11: Advertorial
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertorial
Summary: An advertorial is an advertisement in the form of editorial content. The term "advertorial" is a blend (see portmanteau) of the words "advertisement" and "editorial". Merriam-Webster dates the origin of the word to 1946.
In printed publications, the advertisement is usually written to resemble an objective article and designed to ostensibly look like a legitimate and independent news story. In television, the advertisement is similar to a short infomercial presentation of products or services. These can either be in the form of a television commercial or as a segment on a talk show or variety show. In radio, these can take the form of a radio commercial or a discussion between the announcer and representative. The concept of internet-based advertorials is linked to native advertising; however, whether the two terms are synonymous is contested.
Advertorials can be integrated with editorial content to bypass ad-blocking, enhance credibility and brand familiarity. Advertorials, especially those that are not clearly disclosed, are the subject of controversy in journalism ethics and marketing ethics. Researchers have found that they often mislead readers who are unaware of their origin, co-opting and damaging a publication's reputation. As many as two thirds of readers confuse advertorials for reporting, according to a 2016 study. Critical literacy enables individuals to evaluate commercial messages in marketing communications.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 12: Advocacy
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advocacy
Summary: Advocacy is an activity by an individual or group that aims to influence decisions within political, economic, and social institutions. Advocacy includes activities and publications to influence public policy, laws and budgets by using facts, their relationships, the media, and messaging to educate government officials and the public. Advocacy can include many activities that a person or organization undertakes, including media campaigns, public speaking, commissioning and publishing research. Lobbying (often by lobby groups) is a form of advocacy where a direct approach is made to legislators on a specific issue or specific piece of legislation. Research has started to address how advocacy groups in the United States and Canada are using social media to facilitate civic engagement and collective action.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 13: Advocacy group
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advocacy_group
Summary: Advocacy groups, also known as lobby groups, interest groups, special interest groups, pressure groups, or public associations, use various forms of advocacy or lobbying to influence public opinion and ultimately public policy. They play an important role in the development of political and social systems.
Motives for action may be based on political, economic, religious, moral, commercial or common good-based positions. Groups use varied methods to try to achieve their aims, including lobbying, media campaigns, awareness raising publicity stunts, polls, research, and policy briefings. Some groups are supported or backed by powerful business or political interests and exert considerable influence on the political process, while others have few or no such resources.
Some have developed into important social, and political institutions or social movements. Some powerful advocacy groups have been accused of manipulating the democratic system for narrow commercial gain, and in some instances have been found guilty of corruption, fraud, bribery, influence peddling and other serious crimes. Some groups, generally the ones with less financial resources, may use direct action and civil disobedience, and in some cases are accused of being a threat to the social order or "domestic extremists". Research is beginning to explore how advocacy groups use social media to facilitate civic engagement, and collective action.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 14: Affinity marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affinity_marketing
Summary: Affinity marketing is a concept that consists of a partnership between a company (supplier) and an organization that gathers persons sharing the same interests to bring a greater consumer base to their service, product or opinion. This partnership is known as an affinity group.
The first academic approach of affinity marketing was provided by Macchiette and Roy in 1992. They described this notion as a combination of affinity and the marketing ideas. They defined the word affinity as "an individual level of cohesiveness, social bonding, identification and conformity to the norms and standards of a particular reference group" whereas marketing is described to be the "expectation of benefit for the individual satisfying consumer wants and needs".
Affinity marketing differs from co-branding. The benefits of co-branding partnerships come from the consequences of the association of multiple companies, whereas the benefits of affinity marketing derive from the mental satisfaction to have profited the affinity group.
An affinity group is a group which has a solid connection with a considerable number of consumers and which has the possibility to target them in a much easier way than what can be accomplished by way of ordinary marketing process. People may recognize themselves in affinity groups such as charitable organizations, football teams, enterprises, companies, and organizations. Thus, affinity group members may be fans, customers, subscribers, or staff members.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 15: Agenda-setting theory
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agenda-setting_theory
Summary: Agenda-setting theory(2012) suggests that the communications media, through their ability to identify and publicize issues, play a pivotal role in shaping the problems that attract attention from governments and international organizations, and direct public opinion towards specific issues. The theory suggests that the media can shape public opinion by determining what issues are given the most attention, and has been widely studied and applied to various forms of media. The way news stories and topics that impact public opinion are presented is influenced by the media. It is predicated on the idea that most individuals only have access to one source of information on most issues: the news media. Since they establish the agenda, they may affect how important some things are seen to be.
The agenda-setting by media is driven by the media's bias on things such as politics, economy and culture, etc. Audiences consider an issue to be more significant the more media attention it receives (issue saliency). For instance, even if readers don't have strong feelings about immigration, they will believe that it is a pressing problem at the time if there is consistent journalistic coverage of it over the period of a few months.
The theory has two core assumptions; the first is that it is the media that controls the reality. The media does not report the reality but instead filters and shapes it. The second assumption is quite akin to the description or definition of agenda-setting theory which states that it is the media that gives importance or saliency to its topics as the more likely the media focuses on certain issues, the more likely the public perceive such issue as important and therefore demands action.
The agenda setting theory can be reflected in the awareness model, priorities model, and salience model. Media's agenda setting influences public agenda which in turn influences policy agenda building. There have been three theorized levels for agenda-setting theory that have developed over time; first-level, second-level, and third-level.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 16: Agile marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_marketing
Summary: Agile marketing, often termed marketing agility or international marketing agility, comprises sensemaking, speed, iteration, and marketing decisions; marketing decisions are performed in an agile manner, using principles from the Manifesto for Agile Software Development. Marketing Agility was named a research priority for 2020-2022 by the Marketing Science Institute. 
Sensemaking, or sense-and-respond in some studies, is identifying opportunities or threats in the market. Marketing decisions, for example the marketing mix, are then made at speed, and quick plausible delivery favored over slower options. Implementation and effectiveness are then monitored and further marketing decisions made as necessary, in an iterative fashion. Marketing agility is customer focused, and has shown benefit in VUCA environments, including in deep uncertainty.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 17: Agricultural Marketing Service
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agricultural_Marketing_Service
Summary: The Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) is an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture; it maintains programs in five commodity areas: cotton and tobacco; dairy; fruit and vegetable; livestock and seed; and poultry.  These programs provide testing, standardization, grading and market news services for those commodities, and oversee marketing agreements and orders, administer research and promotion programs, and purchase commodities for federal food programs.  The AMS enforces certain federal laws such as the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act and the Federal Seed Act. The AMS budget is $1.2 billion. It is headquartered in the Jamie L. Whitten Building in Washington, D.C. 
As of July 2021, AMS is led by Administrator Bruce Summers.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 18: Agricultural marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agricultural_marketing
Summary: Agricultural marketing  covers the services involved in moving an agricultural product from the farm to the consumer. These services involve the planning, organizing, directing and handling of agricultural produce in such a way as to satisfy farmers, intermediaries and consumers. Numerous interconnected activities are involved in doing this, such as planning production, growing and harvesting, grading, packing and packaging, transport, storage, agro- and food processing, provision of market information, distribution, advertising and sale. Effectively, the term encompasses the entire range of supply chain operations for agricultural products, whether conducted through ad hoc sales or through a more integrated chain, such as one involving contract farming.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 19: Airborne leaflet propaganda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Airborne_leaflet_propaganda
Summary: Airborne leaflet dropping is a type of propaganda where leaflets (flyers) are scattered in the air, normally by filling  cluster bombs that open in midair with thousands of leaflets.
Military forces have used aircraft to drop leaflets to attempt to alter the behavior of combatants and non-combatants in enemy-controlled territory, sometimes in conjunction with air strikes. Humanitarian air missions, in cooperation with leaflet propaganda, can turn the populace against their leadership while preparing them for the arrival of enemy combatants.
Leaflet droppings have also been used to limit civilian casualties by alerting civilians of imminent danger allowing time to evacuate targeted areas.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 20: Alternative facts
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_facts
Summary: "Alternative facts" was a phrase used by U.S. Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway during a Meet the Press interview on January 22, 2017, in which she defended White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer's false statement about the attendance numbers at Donald Trump's first inauguration as President of the United States. When pressed during the interview with Chuck Todd to explain why Spicer would "utter a provable falsehood", Conway stated that Spicer was giving "alternative facts". Todd responded, "Look, alternative facts are not facts. They're falsehoods."
Conway's use of the phrase "alternative facts" for demonstrable falsehoods was widely mocked on social media and sharply criticized by journalists and media organizations, including Dan Rather, Jill Abramson, and the Public Relations Society of America. The phrase was extensively described as Orwellian, particularly in reference to the term doublethink. Within four days of the interview, sales of George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four had increased 95-fold, which The New York Times and others attributed to Conway's use of the phrase, making it the number-one bestseller on Amazon.com.
In a later article written by Olivia Nuzzi, Conway defended her choice of words where she reportedly stated,  "Two plus two is four. Three plus one is four. Partly cloudy, partly sunny. Glass half full, glass half empty. Those are alternative facts." Conway went on to clarify that the phrase was intended to refer to "additional facts and alternative information," suggesting that there could be multiple interpretations of a given set of data.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 21: Alternative media
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_media
Summary: Alternative media are media sources that differ from established forms of media, such as mainstream media or mass media, in terms of their content, production, or distribution. Alternative media includes many formats, including print, audio, film/video, online/digital and street art. Examples include the counter-culture zines of the 1960s, ethnic and indigenous media such as the First People's television network in Canada (later rebranded Aboriginal Peoples Television Network), and more recently online open publishing journalism sites such as Indymedia.
Sometimes the term "independent media" is used as a synonym, indicating independence from large news media corporations. However, "independent media" generally has a different meaning, indicating freedom of the press and independence from government control. 
In contrast to the mainstream media, alternative media tend to be "non-commercial projects that advocate the interests of those excluded from the mainstream", for example, the poor, political and ethnic minorities, labor groups, and LGBT identities. These media spread marginalized viewpoints, such as those heard in the progressive news program Democracy Now!. They also create identity-based communities, such as in the It Gets Better Project that was posted on YouTube in response to a rise in gay teen suicides at the time of its creation.
Alternative media challenge the dominant beliefs and values of a culture. They have been described as "counter-hegemonic" by adherents of Antonio Gramsci's theory of cultural hegemony. However, since the definition of alternative media as merely counter to the mainstream is limiting, some approaches to the study of alternative media also address the question of how and where these media are created, as well as the dynamic relationship between the media and the participants that create and use them.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 22: Ambush marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ambush_marketing
Summary: Ambush marketing or ambush advertising is a marketing strategy in which an advertiser "ambushes" an event to compete for exposure against other advertisers.
The term was coined by marketing strategist Jerry Welsh, while he was working as the manager of global marketing efforts for American Express in the 1980s. Most ambush marketing campaigns aim to associate a brand with the prominence of a major event, without actually being an "official" partner or sponsor of said event. An advertiser may indirectly ambush an event by alluding to its imagery and themes without referencing any specific trademarks associated with it, or in "direct" and "predatory" means—where an advertiser engages in the fraudulent use of official names and trademarks to deliberately mislead consumers.
Actions against ambush advertising are most common in sport (where major events such as the FIFA World Cup, Olympic Games, and the Super Bowl are prominent targets), as the practice can devalue and dilute exclusive sponsorship rights, and in some cases, infringe upon the organizers' intellectual property rights. Such actions may include restricting advertising in "clean zones" around an event site, removing or obscuring references to non-sponsors at venues, and requiring host countries to pass laws to grant the organizer legal rights to enforce clean zones, and to restrict the use of specific words and concepts to create unofficial associations with the event.
Anti-ambush marketing regulations have attracted controversy for limiting freedom of speech, and for preventing companies from factually promoting themselves in the context of an event.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 23: American Marketing Association
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Marketing_Association
Summary: The American Marketing Association (AMA) is a professional association for marketing professionals with 30,000 members as of 2012. It has 76 professional chapters and 250 collegiate chapters across the United States.
The AMA was formed in 1937 (1937) from the merger of two predecessor organizations, the National Association of Marketing Teachers and the American Marketing Society. It also publishes a number of handbooks and research monographs. The AMA publishes the Journal of Marketing, Journal of Marketing Research, Journal of Public Policy and Marketing, Journal of International Marketing, Journal of Interactive Marketing, and Marketing News. It sponsors the collegiate honor society, Alpha Mu Alpha.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 24: American business history
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_business_history
Summary: American business history is a history of business, entrepreneurship, and corporations, together with responses by consumers, critics, and government, in the United States from colonial times  to the present. In broader context, it is a major part of the Economic history of the United States, but focuses on specific business enterprises.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 25: Annoyance factor
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annoyance_factor
Summary: An annoyance factor (or nuisance or irritation factor), in advertising and brand management, is a variable used to measure consumers' perception level of annoyance in an ad, then analyzed to help evaluate the ad's effectiveness. The variable can be observed or inferred and is a type that might be used in factor analyses. An annoyance effect (or nuisance or irritation effect) is a reference to the impact or result of an annoying stimulus, which can be a strategic aspect of an advertisement intended to help a message stick in the minds of consumers. References to annoyance effects have been referred to as annoyance dynamics. While the words "factor" and "effect", as used in the behavioral sciences, have different meanings, in casual vernacular, they have been used interchangeably as synonymous. A more general or umbrella term would simply be advertising annoyance.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 26: Anthropology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology
Summary: Anthropology is the scientific study of humanity that crosses biology and sociology, concerned with human behavior, human biology, cultures, societies, and linguistics, in both the present and past, including archaic humans. Social anthropology studies patterns of behaviour, while cultural anthropology studies cultural meaning, including norms and values. The term sociocultural anthropology is commonly used today. Linguistic anthropology studies how language influences social life. Biological (or physical) anthropology studies the biology and evolution of humans and their close primate relatives.
Archaeology, often referred to as the "anthropology of the past," explores human activity by examining physical remains. In North America and Asia, it is generally regarded as a branch of anthropology, whereas in Europe, it is considered either an independent discipline or classified under related fields like history and palaeontology.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 27: Apple Inc.
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Inc.
Summary: Apple Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California, in Silicon Valley, best known for its consumer electronics, software and online services. Founded in 1976 as Apple Computer Company by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne, the company was incorporated by Jobs and Wozniak as Apple Computer, Inc. the following year. It was renamed to its current name in 2007 as the company had expanded its focus from computers to consumer electronics. Apple is considered part of the Big Tech group, alongside Nvidia, Microsoft, Alphabet, Amazon, and Meta. 
The company was founded to market Wozniak's Apple I personal computer. Its successor, the Apple II, became one of the first successful mass-produced microcomputers. Apple introduced the Lisa in 1983 and the Macintosh in 1984 as some of the first computers to use a graphical user interface and a mouse. By 1985, internal conflicts led to Jobs leaving the company to form NeXT and Wozniak withdrawing to other ventures; John Sculley served as CEO for over a decade. In the 1990s, Apple lost considerable market share in the personal computer industry to the lower-priced Wintel duopoly of Intel-powered PC clones running Microsoft Windows, and neared bankruptcy by 1997. To overhaul its market strategy, it acquired NeXT, bringing Jobs back to the company. Under his leadership, Apple returned to profitability by introducing the iMac, iPod, iPhone, and iPad devices; creating the iTunes Store; launching the "Think different" advertising campaign; and opening the Apple Store retail chain. Jobs resigned in 2011 for health reasons, and died two months later; he was succeeded as CEO by Tim Cook.
Apple's product lineup includes portable and home hardware like the iPhone, iPad, Apple Watch, Mac, and Apple TV; several in-house operating systems such as iOS, iPadOS, and macOS; and various software and services including Apple Pay and iCloud, as well as multimedia streaming services like Apple Music and Apple TV. Since 2011, Apple has for the most part been the world's largest company by market capitalization, and, as of 2024, is the largest manufacturing company by revenue, the fourth-largest personal computer vendor, the largest vendor of tablet computers, and the largest vendor of mobile phones. Apple became the first publicly traded US company to be valued at over $1 trillion in 2018, and, as of October 2025, is valued at just over $4 trillion.
Apple has received criticism regarding its contractors' labor conditions, its relationship with trade unions, its environmental practices, and its corporate ethics, including anti-competitive tactics, materials sourcing, and its acquisitions of smaller businesses. Nevertheless, the company has a large following and enjoys a high level of customer loyalty. It has consistently been ranked as one of the world's most valuable brands since the late 2000s.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 28: Applied ethics
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Applied_ethics
Summary: Applied ethics is the practical aspect of moral considerations. It is ethics with respect to real-world actions and their moral considerations in private and public life, the professions, health, technology, law, and leadership. For example, bioethics is concerned with identifying the best approach to moral issues in the life sciences, such as euthanasia, the allocation of scarce health resources, or the use of human embryos in research. Environmental ethics is concerned with ecological issues such as the responsibility of government and corporations to clean up pollution. Business ethics includes the duties of whistleblowers to the public and to their employers.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 29: April Fools' Day
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/April_Fools%27_Day
Summary: April Fools' Day or April Fool's Day (rarely called All Fools' Day) is an annual custom on the 1st of April consisting of practical jokes, hoaxes, and pranks. Jokesters often expose their actions by shouting "April Fool[s]!" at the recipient. Mass media can be involved with these pranks, which may be revealed as such the following day. The custom of setting aside a day for playing harmless pranks upon one's neighbor has been relatively common in the world historically.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 30: Art director
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art_director
Summary: Art director is a title for a variety of similar job functions in advertising, marketing, publishing, the performing arts (including theater, film, television, and animation), fashion, the Internet, and video games.
Art director's role is to supervise the visual style and images of an artistic production. In particular, they are in charge of its overall visual appearance and how it communicates visually, stimulates moods, contrasts features, and psychologically appeals to a target audience. The art director makes decisions about visual elements, what artistic style(s) to use, and when to use motion. One of the biggest challenges art directors face is translating desired moods, messages, concepts, and underdeveloped ideas into imagery. In the brainstorming process, art directors, colleagues and clients explore ways the finished piece or scene could look. At times, the art director is responsible for solidifying the vision of the collective imagination while resolving conflicting agendas and inconsistencies between contributors' ideas.
In eastern animated works, such as Japanese anime and Chinese animation, the role of art director (美術監督, bijutsu kantoku) specifically refers to the artist in charge of supervising and directing the background art and the background art staff of a particular work rather than a role unifying a work's overall artistic vision.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 31: Astroturfing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astroturfing
Summary: Astroturfing is the deceptive practice of hiding the sponsors of an orchestrated message or organization (e.g., political, economic, advertising, religious, or public relations) to make it appear as though it originates from, and is supported by, unsolicited grassroots participants.  It is a practice intended to give the statements or organizations credibility by withholding information about the source's financial backers.
The implication behind the use of the term is that instead of a "true" or "natural" grassroots effort behind the activity in question, there is a "fake" or "artificial" appearance of support. It is increasingly recognized as a problem in social media, e-commerce, and politics. Astroturfing can influence public opinion by flooding platforms like political blogs, news sites, and review websites with manipulated content. Some groups accused of astroturfing argue that they are legitimately helping citizen activists to make their voices heard.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 32: Attack ad
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attack_ad
Summary: In political campaigns, an attack ad is an advertisement designed to wage a personal attack against an opposing candidate or political party in order to gain support for the attacking candidate and attract voters. Attack ads often form part of negative campaigning or smear campaigns, and in large or well-financed campaigns, may be disseminated via mass media.
An attack ad will generally unfairly criticize an opponent's political platform, usually by pointing out its faults. Often the ad will simply make use of innuendo, based on opposition research. Political attack ads across all types of media can have different strategic aims. Some are character attacks, trying to persuade the viewer to think differently about a candidate's character in hopes that they will reconsider their perception of the candidate and who they are as a person. Another strategy is an attack on the candidate's policy or political ideas. This attempts to derail one's support for a candidate by persuading them that the candidate-under-attack's political ideas are illogical, extreme, or will be ineffective.
Televised attack ads rose to prominence in the United States in the 1960s, especially since Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations require over-the-air commercial TV stations with licenses issued by the FCC—effectively all regulated TV stations, since others would either be public television or be pirated—to air political ads by both parties, whether it be attack ads or more traditional political ads. Although cable television and the Internet are not required to air such ads, attack ads have become commonplace on both media as well.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 33: Attribution (marketing)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attribution_(marketing)
Summary: In marketing, attribution, also known as multi-touch attribution (MTA), is the identification of a set of user actions ("events" or "touchpoints") that contribute to a desired outcome, and then the assignment of a value to each of these events. Marketing attribution provides a level of understanding of what combination of events in what particular order influence individuals to engage in a desired behavior, typically referred to as a conversion.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 34: Audio deepfake
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audio_deepfake
Summary: Audio deepfake technology, also referred to as voice cloning or deepfake audio, is an application of artificial intelligence designed to generate speech that convincingly mimics specific individuals, often synthesizing phrases or sentences they have never spoken. Initially developed with the intent to enhance various aspects of human life, it has practical applications such as generating audiobooks and assisting individuals who have lost their voices due to medical conditions. Additionally, it has commercial uses, including the creation of personalized digital assistants, natural-sounding text-to-speech systems, and advanced speech translation services.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 35: B2B Marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_marketing
Summary: Business marketing is a marketing practice of individuals or organizations (including commercial businesses, governments, and institutions). It allows them to sell products or services to other companies or organizations, who either resell them, use them in their products or services, or use them to support their work.
The field of marketing can be broken down into many sections such as business-to-business (B2B) marketing, business-to-consumer (B2C) marketing, and business-to-developer (B2D) marketing. However, business marketing is typically associated with the business-to-business sector.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 36: B2C
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct-to-consumer
Summary: Direct-to-consumer (DTC or D2C) or business-to-consumer (B2C) is the business model of selling products directly to customers and thereby bypassing any third-party retailers, wholesalers, or intermediaries. Direct-to-consumer sales are usually transacted online, but direct-to-consumer brands may also operate physical retail spaces as a complement to their main e-commerce platform in a clicks-and-mortar business model. In the year 2021, direct-to-consumer e-commerce sales in the United States were over $128 billion. Examples of DTC brands currently in business include: Allbirds, Away, Dollar Shave Club, Everlane, Glossier, and Warby Parker.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 37: Bandwagon effect
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandwagon_effect
Summary: The bandwagon effect is a psychological phenomenon where people  adopt certain behaviors, styles, or attitudes simply because others are doing so. More specifically, it is a cognitive bias by which public opinion or behaviours can alter due to particular actions and beliefs rallying amongst the public. It is a psychological phenomenon whereby the rate of uptake of beliefs, ideas, fads and trends increases with respect to the proportion of others who have already done so. As more people come to believe in something, others also "hop on the bandwagon", regardless of the underlying evidence.
Following others' actions or beliefs can occur because of conformism or deriving information from others. Much of the influence of the bandwagon effect comes from the desire to 'fit in' with peers; making similar selections as other people is seen as a way to gain access to a particular social group. An example of this is fashion trends wherein the increasing popularity of a certain garment or style encourages more acceptance. When individuals make rational choices based on the information they receive from others, economists have proposed that information cascades can quickly form in which people ignore their personal information signals and follow the behaviour of others. Cascades explain why behaviour is fragile as people understand that their behaviour is based on a very limited amount of information. As a result, fads form easily but are also easily dislodged. The phenomenon is observed in various fields, such as economics, political science, medicine, and psychology. In social psychology, people's tendency to align their beliefs and behaviors with a group is known as 'herd mentality' or 'groupthink'. The reverse bandwagon effect (also known as the snob effect in certain contexts) is a cognitive bias that causes people to avoid doing something, because they believe that other people are doing it.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 38: Behavioral targeting
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Targeted_advertising
Summary: Targeted advertising or data-driven marketing is a form of advertising, including online advertising, that is directed towards an audience with certain traits, based on the product or person the advertiser is promoting.
These traits can either be demographic with a focus on race, economic status, sex, age, generation, level of education, income level, and employment, or psychographic focused on the consumer values, personality, attitude, opinion, lifestyle, and interests. This focus can also entail behavioral variables, such as browser history, purchase history, and other recent online activities. The process of algorithm targeting eliminates waste.
Traditional forms of advertising, including billboards, newspapers, magazines, and radio channels, are progressively becoming replaced by online advertisements.
Through the emergence of new online channels, the usefulness of targeted advertising is increasing because companies aim to minimize wasted advertising. Most targeted new media advertising currently uses second-order proxies for targets, such as tracking online or mobile web activities of consumers, associating historical web page consumer demographics with new consumer web page access, using a search word as the basis of implied interest, or contextual advertising.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 39: Big lie
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_lie
Summary: A big lie (German: große Lüge) is a gross distortion or misrepresentation of the truth primarily used as a political propaganda technique. The German expression was first used by Adolf Hitler in his book Mein Kampf (1925) to describe how people could be induced to believe so colossal a lie because they would not believe that someone "could have the impudence to distort the truth so infamously". Hitler claimed that the technique had been used by Jews to blame Germany's loss in World War I on German general Erich Ludendorff, who was a prominent nationalist political leader in the Weimar Republic.
According to historian Jeffrey Herf, the Nazis used the idea of the original big lie to turn sentiment against Jews and justify the Holocaust. Herf maintains that Nazi Germany's chief propagandist Joseph Goebbels and the Nazi Party actually used the big lie technique that they described – and that they used it to turn long-standing antisemitism in Europe into mass murder. Herf further argues that the Nazis' big lie was their depiction of Germany as an innocent, besieged nation striking back at "international Jewry", which the Nazis blamed for starting World War I. Nazi propaganda repeatedly claimed that Jews held outsized and secret power in Britain, Russia, and the United States. It further spread claims that the Jews had begun a war of extermination against Germany, and used these to assert that Germany had a right to annihilate the Jews in self-defense.
In the 21st century, the term has been applied to Donald Trump's and his allies' attempts to overturn the result of the 2020 U.S. presidential election, specifically the false claim that the election was stolen through massive voter and electoral fraud. The scale of the claims resulted in Trump supporters attacking the United States Capitol. Later reports indicate that Trump knew he had genuinely lost the election while promoting the narrative. Scholars say that constant repetition across many different forms of media is necessary for the success of the big lie technique, as is a psychological motivation for the public to believe the extreme assertions.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 40: Billboard
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billboard
Summary: A billboard (also called a hoarding in the UK and many other parts of the world) is a large outdoor advertising structure (a billing board), typically found in high-traffic areas such as alongside busy roads. Billboards present large advertisements to passing pedestrians and drivers. Typically brands use billboards to build their brands or to push for their new products.
The largest ordinary-sized billboards are located primarily on major highways, expressways, or principal arterials, and command high-density consumer exposure (mostly to vehicular traffic). These afford the greatest visibility due not only to their size, but because they allow creative "customizing" through extensions and embellishments.
Posters are another common form of billboard advertising, located mostly along primary and secondary arterial roads. Posters are in a smaller format and are viewed primarily by residents and commuter traffic, with some pedestrian exposure.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 41: Book censorship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_censorship
Summary: Book censorship is the act of some authority taking measures to suppress ideas and information within a book. Censorship is "the regulation of free speech and other forms of entrenched authority". Censors typically identify as either a concerned parent, community members who react to a text without reading, or local or national organizations. Books have been censored by authoritarian dictatorships to silence dissent, such as the People's Republic of China, Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. Books are most often censored for age appropriateness, offensive language, sexual content, amongst other reasons. Similarly, religions may issue lists of banned books, such as the historical example of the Catholic Church's Index Librorum Prohibitorum and bans of such books as Salman Rushdie's The Satanic Verses by Ayatollah Khomeini, which do not always carry legal force. Censorship can be enacted at the national or subnational level as well, and can carry legal penalties. In many cases, the authors of these books could face harsh sentences, exile from the country, or even execution.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 42: Boycott
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boycott
Summary: A boycott is an act of nonviolent, voluntary abstention from a product, person, organisation, or country as an expression of protest. It is usually for moral, social, political, or environmental reasons. The purpose of a boycott is to inflict some economic loss on the target, or to indicate a moral outrage, usually to try to compel the target to alter an objectionable behavior.
The word is named after Captain Charles Boycott, agent of an absentee landlord in Ireland, against whom the tactic was successfully employed after a suggestion by Irish nationalist leader Charles Stewart Parnell and his Irish Land League in 1880.
Sometimes, a boycott can be a form of consumer activism, sometimes called moral purchasing. When a similar practice is legislated by a national government, it is known as a sanction. Frequently, however, the threat of boycotting a business is an empty threat, with no significant effect on sales.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 43: Brand
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand
Summary: A brand is a name, term, design, symbol or any other feature that distinguishes one seller's goods or service from those of other sellers. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising for recognition and, importantly, to create and store value as brand equity for the object identified, to the benefit of the brand's customers, its owners and shareholders. Brand names are sometimes distinguished from generic or store brands.
The practice of branding—in the original literal sense of marking by burning—is thought to have begun with the ancient Egyptians, who are known to have engaged in livestock branding and branded slaves as early as 2,700 BCE. Branding was used to differentiate one person's cattle from another's by means of a distinctive symbol burned into the animal's skin with a hot branding iron. If a person stole any of the cattle, anyone else who saw the symbol could deduce the actual owner. The term has been extended to mean a strategic personality for a product or company, so that "brand" now suggests the values and promises that a consumer may perceive and buy into. Over time, the practice of branding objects extended to a broader range of packaging and goods offered for sale including oil, wine, cosmetics, and fish sauce and, in the 21st century, extends even further into services (such as legal, financial and medical), political parties and people's stage names.
In the modern era, the concept of branding has expanded to include deployment by a manager of the marketing and communication techniques and tools that help to distinguish a company or products from competitors, aiming to create a lasting impression in the minds of customers. The key components that form a brand's toolbox include a brand's identity, personality, product design, brand communication (such as by logos and trademarks), brand awareness, brand loyalty, and various branding (brand management) strategies. Many companies believe that there is often little to differentiate between several types of products in the 21st century, hence branding is among a few remaining forms of product differentiation.
Brand equity is the measurable totality of a brand's worth and is validated by observing the effectiveness of these branding components. When a customer is familiar with a brand or favors it incomparably over its competitors, a corporation has reached a high level of brand equity. Brand owners manage their brands carefully to create shareholder value. Brand valuation is a management technique that ascribes a monetary value to a brand.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 44: Brand ambassador
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_ambassador
Summary: A brand ambassador (sometimes also called a corporate ambassador) is a person paid by an organization or company to represent its brand in a positive light, helping to increase brand awareness and sales. The brand ambassador is meant to embody the corporate identity in appearance, demeanor, values and ethics. The key element of brand ambassadors is their ability to use promotional strategies that will strengthen the customer-product-service relationship, influence a large audience to buy and consume more.
Predominantly, a brand ambassador is known as a positive spokesperson, an opinion leader or a community influencer, appointed as an internal or external agent to boost product or service sales and create brand awareness. Today, "brand ambassador" as a term has expanded beyond celebrity branding to self-branding or personal brand management. Professional figures, such as good-will and non-profit ambassadors, promotional models, testimonials and brand advocates have formed as an extension of the same concept, taking into account the requirements of every company.
The term brand ambassador loosely refers to a marketing activity which covers all types of event staff, varying between trade show hosts, in-store promotional members and street teams. The job of a brand ambassador has typically been held by a celebrity or a public figure given free goods or paid for their endorsement, now a brand ambassador can be anyone who has knowledge or can identify certain needs of the brand. The brand ambassador's job is to drive results through communication tools either publicly, such as social media, or privately including emails, messaging and further one-to-one channels.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 45: Brand awareness
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_awareness
Summary: Brand awareness is the extent to which customers are able to recall or recognize a brand under different conditions. Brand awareness is one of the two key components of brand knowledge, as defined by the associative network memory model. It plays a vital role in consumer behavior, advertising management, and brand management. The consumer's ability to recognize or recall a brand is central to the purchasing process because buying decisions cannot begin unless a consumer is first aware of a product category and a brand within that category. Awareness does not necessarily mean that the consumer must be able to recall a specific brand name, but they must be able to recall enough distinguishing features for a purchase to happen. Creating brand awareness is the main step in advertising a new product or revitalising an old one.
Brand awareness consists of two components: brand recall and brand recognition. Several studies have shown that these two components operate in fundamentally different ways as brand recall is associated with memory retrieval, and brand recognition involves object recognition. Both brand recall and brand recognition play an important role in consumers' purchase decision process and in marketing communications. Brand awareness is closely related to concepts such as the evoked set and consideration set which include the specific brands a consumer considers in purchasing decision. Consumers are believed to hold between three and seven brands in their consideration set across a broad range of product categories. Consumers typically purchase one of the top three brands in their consideration set as consumers have shown to buy only familiar, well-established brands.
As brands are competing in a highly globalized market, brand awareness is a key indicator of a brand's competitive market performance. Given the importance of brand awareness in consumer purchasing decisions, marketers have developed a number of metrics designed to measure brand awareness and other measures of brand health. These metrics are collectively known as Awareness, Attitudes and Usage (AAU) metrics.
To ensure a product or brand's market success, awareness levels must be managed across the entire product life cycle – from product launch to market decline. Many marketers regularly monitor brand awareness levels, and if they fall below a predetermined threshold, the advertising and promotional effort is intensified until awareness returns to the desired level.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 46: Brand licensing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_licensing
Summary: Brand licensing means renting or leasing of an intangible asset. It is a process of creating and managing contracts between the owner of a brand and a company or individual who wants to  use the brand in association with a product, for an agreed period of time, within an agreed territory. Licensing is used by brand owners to extend a trademark or character onto products of a completely different nature.
Examples of intangible assets include a song ("Over the Rainbow"), a character (Donald Duck), a name (David Beckham), or a brand (Rolls-Royce). An arrangement to license a brand requires a licensing agreement. A licensing agreement authorizes a company which markets a product or service (a licensee) to lease or rent a brand from a brand owner who operates a licensing program (a licensor).
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 47: Brand management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_management
Summary: In marketing, brand management refers to the process of controlling how a brand is perceived in the market. Tangible elements of brand management include the look, price, and packaging of the product itself; intangible elements are the experiences that the target markets share with the brand, and the relationships they have with it. A brand manager oversees all aspects of the consumer's brand association as well as relationships with members of the supply chain. Developing a good relationship with target markets is essential for brand management.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 48: Branded entertainment
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branded_content
Summary: Branded content (also known as branded entertainment) is a type of entertainment product made or otherwise funded by an advertiser. They are designed to build awareness for a particular brand by presenting content that reflects its values and image, without necessarily being presented as a promotion first and foremost. Branded content is distinguished from product placement—a business practice in which advertisers pay to have references to their brands incorporated into a work (although branded content may still otherwise contain product placement), and content marketing—the use of content to specifically promote a product, service, or company.
Unlike conventional forms of editorial content, branded content is generally funded entirely by a brand or corporation rather than a studio or a group of solely artistic producers. Branded content has taken the form of television programming, films, internet video and other digital content, video games, events, and other installations. Modern branded marketing strategies are intended primarily to counter market trends, such as the decreasing acceptance of commercials and advertorials.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 49: Broadcast law
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadcast_law
Summary: Broadcast law is the field of law that pertains to broadcasting. These laws and regulations pertain to radio stations and TV stations, and are also considered to include closely related services like cable TV and cable radio, as well as satellite TV and satellite radio. Likewise, it also extends to broadcast networks.
Broadcast law includes technical parameters for these facilities, as well as content issues like copyright, profanity, and localism or regionalism.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 50: Burning of books and burying of scholars
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_books_and_burying_of_scholars
Summary: The burning of books and burying of scholars was the purported burning of texts in 213 BCE and live burial of 460 Confucian scholars in 212 BCE ordered by Chinese emperor Qin Shi Huang. The events were alleged to have destroyed philosophical treatises of the Hundred Schools of Thought, with the goal of strengthening the official Qin governing philosophy of Legalism.
Modern historians doubt the details of the story, which first appeared more than a century later in the Han dynasty official Sima Qian's Records of the Grand Historian. As a court scholar, Sima had every reason to denigrate the earlier emperor to flatter his own, but later Confucians did not question the story. According to the historian Ulrich Neininger, their message was, "If you take our life, Heaven will take the life of your dynasty."
Modern scholars agree that Qin Shi Huang gathered and destroyed many works that he regarded as incorrect or subversive. He ordered two copies of each text to be preserved in imperial libraries. Some were destroyed in the fighting following the fall of the dynasty. He had scholars killed, but not by being buried alive, and the victims were not rú (Chinese: 儒; lit. 'Confucians'), since that school had not yet been formed as such.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 51: Business administration
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_administration
Summary: Business Administration is the administration of a commercial enterprise. It includes all aspects of overseeing and supervising the business operations of an organization.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 52: Business entity
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_person
Summary: In law, a legal person is any person or legal entity that can do the things a human person is usually able to do in law – such as enter into contracts, sue and be sued, own property, and so on. The reason for the term "legal person" is that some legal persons are not human persons: companies and corporations (i.e., business entities) are persons, legally speaking (they can legally do most of the things an ordinary person can do), but they are not, in a literal sense, human beings.
Legal personhood is a prerequisite to legal capacity (the ability of any legal person to amend – i.e. enter into, transfer, etc. – rights and obligations): it is a prerequisite for an international organization being able to sign international treaties in its own name.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 53: Business marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_marketing
Summary: Business marketing is a marketing practice of individuals or organizations (including commercial businesses, governments, and institutions). It allows them to sell products or services to other companies or organizations, who either resell them, use them in their products or services, or use them to support their work.
The field of marketing can be broken down into many sections such as business-to-business (B2B) marketing, business-to-consumer (B2C) marketing, and business-to-developer (B2D) marketing. However, business marketing is typically associated with the business-to-business sector.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 54: Call-out culture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancel_culture
Summary: Cancel culture,  also called call-out culture, is a cultural phenomenon in which people criticize an individual thought to have acted or spoken in an unacceptable manner, and call (typically over social media) for the target to be ostracized, boycotted, shunned or fired. This shunning may extend to social or professional circles—whether on social media or in person—with most high-profile incidents involving celebrities. Those subject are said to have been "canceled". While the careers of some public figures have been impacted by boycotts—widely described as "cancellation"—others who complained of cancellation successfully continued their careers.
The term "cancel culture" came into circulation in 2018 and has mostly negative connotations. Some critics argue that cancel culture has a chilling effect on public discourse, that it is unproductive, that it does not bring real social change, that it causes intolerance, or that it amounts to cyberbullying. Others argue that the term is used to attack efforts to promote accountability or give disenfranchised people a voice, and to attack language that is itself free speech. Still others question whether cancel culture is an actual phenomenon, arguing that boycotting has existed long before the origin of the term "cancel culture".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 55: Campaign advertising
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campaign_advertising
Summary: In politics, campaign advertising is propaganda through the media to influence a political debate and, ultimately, voting. Political consultants and political campaign staff design these ads. Many countries restrict the use of broadcast media to broadcast political messages. In the European Union, many countries do not permit paid-for TV or radio advertising for fear that wealthy groups will gain control of airtime, making fair play impossible and distorting the political debate.
In both the United Kingdom and Ireland, paid advertisements are forbidden, though political parties are allowed a small number of party political broadcasts in the run-up to election time. The United States has a very free market for broadcast political messaging. Canada allows paid-for political broadcasts but requires equitable access to the airwaves.
Campaigns can include several different media (depending on local law). The period over which political campaign advertising is possible varies significantly from country to country, with campaigns in the United States lasting a year or more to places like the UK and Ireland, where advertising is restricted by law to just a short period of weeks before the election. Social media has become very important in political messaging, making it possible to message larger groups of constituents with minimal physical effort or expense. Still, the totality of messaging through these channels often needs to be put in the hands of campaign managers.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 56: Cancel culture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancel_culture
Summary: Cancel culture,  also called call-out culture, is a cultural phenomenon in which people criticize an individual thought to have acted or spoken in an unacceptable manner, and call (typically over social media) for the target to be ostracized, boycotted, shunned or fired. This shunning may extend to social or professional circles—whether on social media or in person—with most high-profile incidents involving celebrities. Those subject are said to have been "canceled". While the careers of some public figures have been impacted by boycotts—widely described as "cancellation"—others who complained of cancellation successfully continued their careers.
The term "cancel culture" came into circulation in 2018 and has mostly negative connotations. Some critics argue that cancel culture has a chilling effect on public discourse, that it is unproductive, that it does not bring real social change, that it causes intolerance, or that it amounts to cyberbullying. Others argue that the term is used to attack efforts to promote accountability or give disenfranchised people a voice, and to attack language that is itself free speech. Still others question whether cancel culture is an actual phenomenon, arguing that boycotting has existed long before the origin of the term "cancel culture".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 57: Cannibalization (marketing)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cannibalization_(marketing)
Summary: In marketing strategy, cannibalization is a reduction in sales volume, sales revenue, or market share of one product when the same company introduces a new product.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 58: Canvassing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canvassing
Summary: Canvassing, also known as door knocking or phone banking, is the systematic initiation of direct contact with individuals, commonly used during political campaigns. Canvassing can be done for many reasons: political campaigning, grassroots fundraising, community awareness, membership drives, and more. Canvassing is used by political parties and issue groups to identify supporters, persuade the undecided, and add voters to the voters list through voter registration, and it is central to get out the vote operations. It is the core element of what political campaigns call the ground game or field.
Organized political canvassing became a central tool of contested election campaigns in Britain, and has remained a core practice performed by thousands of volunteers at each election there, and in many countries with similar political systems.
Canvassing can also refer to a neighborhood canvass performed by law enforcement in the course of an investigation. This is a systematic approach to interviewing residents, merchants, and others who are in the immediate vicinity of a crime and may have useful information.
In the United States, the compilation of election returns and validation of the outcome that forms the basis of the official results is also called canvassing.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 59: Catch and kill
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catch_and_kill
Summary: Catch and kill is a surreptitious technique employed by newspapers and media outlets to prevent an individual from publicly revealing information damaging to a third party. Using a legally enforceable non-disclosure agreement, the publisher purports to buy exclusive rights to "catch" the damaging story from the individual, but then "kills" the story for the benefit of the third party by preventing it from ever being published. The individual with the information frequently does not realize that the tabloid intends to suppress the individual's story instead of publishing it. The practice is technically distinct from using hush money, in which the individual is bribed by the third party to intentionally conceal the damaging information, but identical for all practical intents and purposes.
The National Enquirer and its parent company American Media, Inc. have attracted attention for using the practice. It may also refer to the practice of buying up competitors to eliminate competition and maintain a monopoly or oligopoly, or as an antonym to catch-and-release, a common term in flyfishing – meaning the fish is caught and then it's released back into the water.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 60: Censorship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Censorship
Summary: Censorship is the suppression of speech, public communication, or other information. This may be done on the basis that such material is considered objectionable, harmful, sensitive, or "inconvenient". Censorship can be conducted by governments and private institutions. When an individual such as an author or other creator engages in censorship of their own works or speech, it is referred to as self-censorship. General censorship occurs in a variety of different media, including speech, books, music, films, and other arts, the press, radio, television, and the Internet for a variety of claimed reasons including national security, to control obscenity, pornography, and hate speech, to protect children or other vulnerable groups, to promote or restrict political or religious views, and to prevent slander and libel. Specific rules and regulations regarding censorship vary between legal jurisdictions and/or private organizations.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 61: Character assassination
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_assassination
Summary: Character assassination (CA) is a deliberate and sustained effort to damage the reputation or credibility of an individual. The term character assassination became popular around 1930. This concept, as a subject of scholarly study, was originally introduced by Davis (1950) in a collection of essays revealing the dangers of political smear campaigns. Six decades later Icks and Shiraev (2014) rejuvenated the term and revived academic interest by addressing and comparing a variety of historical character-assassination events.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 62: Chartered Institute of Marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chartered_Institute_of_Marketing
Summary: The Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) was founded in 1911. It has over 30,000 members, including more than 3,000 registered Chartered Marketers. CIM offers 130 study centres in 36 countries, and exam centres in 132 countries.
In 1952 Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, became the institute's patron, taking over from King George VI who was appointed in 1937 as CIM's first royal patron. In 2019 King Charles III (then Prince of Wales), became the new patron of CIM.
The first Code of Practice was introduced in 1973, and in 1989, the institute was awarded a royal charter.
CIM offers training courses, and professional qualifications, from foundation to postgraduate or master's degree level (EQF Level 7). In 1992, the European Union declared CIM's flagship qualification as the "preferred professional marketing qualification through member states".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 63: Christian Grönroos
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_Gr%C3%B6nroos
Summary: Christian Grönroos (born 16 January 1947) is a Finnish academic known for his foundational contributions to the fields of service and relationship marketing. His research interest is to "develop marketing based on a service logic: promise management and marketing; transforming manufacturing into service business."
Christian Grönroos is finlandssvensk ('Finland's-Swede'). In January 1979, he defended is doctoral dissertation entitled "Marketing of services: A study of the marketing function in service firms." The official opponent was  Clas Wahlbin who would become a professor at Linköping University, and rector of Jönköping University in Sweden.
In 1984, Christian Grönroos was appointed Professor of International and Industrial Marketing at Hanken School of Economics in Finland, (Svenska handelshögskolan). In 1999, he became Professor of Service and Relationship Marketing. He founded the research and knowledge centre CERS-Centre for Relationship Marketing and Service Management. He is an Honorary Professor at Nankai University and Tianjin Normal University, P.R.China as well as at Oslo School of Management, Norway. Between 2001 and 2007 he served as Guest Professor of Service Management at Lund University Sweden.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 64: Civil disobedience
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_disobedience
Summary: Civil disobedience is the active and professed refusal of a citizen to obey certain laws, demands, orders, or commands of a government (or any other authority). By some definitions, civil disobedience has to be nonviolent to be called "civil". Hence, civil disobedience is sometimes equated with peaceful protests or nonviolent resistance. Henry David Thoreau's essay Resistance to Civil Government, first published in 1849 and then published posthumously in 1866 as Civil Disobedience, popularized the term in the US, although the concept itself was practiced long before this work. 
Various forms of civil disobedience have been used by prominent activists, such as American women's suffrage leader Susan B. Anthony in the late 19th century, Egyptian nationalist Saad Zaghloul during the 1910s, and Indian nationalist Mahatma Gandhi in 1920s British India as part of his leadership of the Indian independence movement. Martin Luther King Jr.'s and James Bevel's peaceful nonviolent protests during the civil rights movement in the 1960s United States sometimes contained important aspects of civil disobedience. Although civil disobedience is rarely justifiable in court, King regarded civil disobedience to be a display and practice of reverence for law: "Any man who breaks a law that conscience tells him is unjust and willingly accepts the penalty by staying in jail to arouse the conscience of the community on the injustice of the law is at that moment expressing the very highest respect for the law."
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 65: Clayton M. Christensen
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clayton_Christensen
Summary: Clayton Magleby Christensen (April 6, 1952 – January 23, 2020) was an American academic and business consultant who developed the theory of "disruptive innovation", which has been called the most influential business idea of the early 21st century. Christensen introduced "disruption" in his 1997 book The Innovator's Dilemma, and it led The Economist to term him "the most influential management thinker of his time." He was the Kim B. Clark Professor of Business Administration at the Harvard Business School (HBS), and was also a leader and writer in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). He was one of the founders of the Jobs to Be Done development methodology.
Christensen was also a co-founder of Rose Park Advisors, a venture capital firm, and Innosight, a management consulting and investment firm specializing in innovation.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 66: Co-creation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Co-creation
Summary: Co-creation, in the context of a business, refers to a product or service design process in which input from consumers plays a central role from beginning to end. Less specifically, the term is also used for any way in which a business allows consumers to submit ideas, designs or content. This way, the firm will not run out of ideas regarding the design to be created and at the same time, it will further strengthen the business relationship between the firm and its customers. Another meaning is the creation of value by ordinary people, whether for a company or not. 
Urban co-creation extends the notion of co-creation beyond business to urban planning and transformation. It involves the collective creation of urban environments by residents, communities, professionals, and institutions through participatory, bottom-up processes. The concept encompasses traditional practices, grassroots actions, and innovative participatory planning methods, all aiming to transform cities in more inclusive, democratic, and sustainable ways. A recent taxonomy of urban co-creation categorizes practices according to tools, time involvement, spatial focus and purpose, enabling systematic analysis and creative development of new participatory experiences.
The first person to use the "Co-" in "co-creation" as a marketing prefix was Koichi Shimizu, professor of Josai University, in 1979. In 1979, "co-marketing" was introduced at the Japan Society of Commerce's national conference. Everything with "Co" comes from here.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 67: Cold calling
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_calling
Summary: Cold calling is the solicitation of business from potential customers who have had no prior contact with the salesperson conducting the call. It is an attempt to convince potential customers to purchase the salesperson's product or service.  Generally, it is an over-the-phone process, making it a form of telemarketing, but can also be done in-person by door-to-door salespeople.  Though cold calling can be used as a legitimate business tool, scammers can use cold calling as well.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 68: Commerce
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commerce
Summary: Commerce is the organized system of activities, functions, procedures and institutions that directly or indirectly contribute to the smooth, unhindered  exchange (distribution through transactional processes) of goods, services, and other things of value at the right time, place, quantity, quality and price through various channels among the original producers and the final consumers within local, regional, national or international economies. The diversity in the distribution of natural resources, differences of human needs and wants, and division of labour along with comparative advantage are the principal factors that give rise to commercial exchanges.
Commerce consists of trade and aids to trade (i.e. auxiliary commercial services) taking place along the entire supply chain. Trade is the exchange of goods (including raw materials, intermediate and finished goods) and services between buyers and sellers in return for an agreed-upon price at traditional (or online) marketplaces. It is categorized into domestic trade, including retail and wholesale as well as local, regional, inter-regional and international/foreign trade (encompassing import, export and entrepôt/re-export trades). The exchange of currencies (in foreign exchange markets), commodities (in commodity markets/exchanges) and securities and derivatives (in stock exchanges and financial markets) in specialized exchange markets, typically operating under the domain of finance and investment, also falls under the umbrella of trade. On the other hand, auxiliary commercial activities (aids to trade) which can facilitate trade include commercial intermediaries, banking, credit financing and related services, transportation, packaging, warehousing, communication, advertising and insurance. Their purpose is to remove hindrances related to direct personal contact, payments, savings, funding, separation of place and time, product protection and preservation, knowledge and risk.
The broader framework of commerce incorporates additional elements and factors such as laws and regulations (including intellectual property rights and antitrust laws), policies, tariffs and trade barriers, consumers and consumer trends, producers and production strategies, supply chains and their management, financial transactions for ordinary and extraordinary business activities, market dynamics (including supply and demand), technological innovation, competition and entrepreneurship, trade agreements, multinational corporations and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), and macroeconomic factors (like economic stability).
Commerce drives economic growth, development and prosperity, promotes regional and international interdependence, fosters cultural exchange, creates jobs, improves people's standard of living by giving them access to a wider variety of goods and services, and encourages innovation and competition for better products. On the other hand, commerce can worsen economic inequality by concentrating wealth (and power) into the hands of a small number of individuals, and by prioritizing short-term profit over long-term sustainability and ethical, social, and environmental considerations, leading to environmental degradation, labor exploitation and disregard for consumer safety. Unregulated, it can lead to excessive consumption (generating undesirable waste) and unsustainable exploitation of nature (causing resource depletion). Harnessing commerce's benefits for the society while mitigating its drawbacks remains vital for policymakers, businesses and other stakeholders, who are increasingly adopting sustainable practices, ethical sourcing, and circular economy models,
Commerce traces its origins to ancient localized barter systems, leading to the establishment of periodic marketplaces, and culminating in the development of currencies for efficient trade. In medieval times, trade routes (like the Silk Road) with pivotal commercial hubs (like Venice) connected regions and continents, enabling long-distance trade and cultural exchange. From the 15th to the early 20th century, European colonial powers dominated global commerce on an unprecedented scale, giving rise to maritime trade empires with their powerful colonial trade companies (e.g., Dutch East India Company and British East India Company) and ushering in an unprecedented global exchange (see Columbian exchange). In the 19th century, modern banking and related international markets along with the Industrial Revolution fundamentally reshaped commerce. In the post-colonial 20th century, free market principles gained ground, multinational corporations and consumer economies thrived in U.S.-led capitalist countries and free trade agreements (like GATT and WTO) emerged, whereas communist economies encountered trade restrictions, limiting consumer choice. Furthermore, in the mid-20th century, the adoption of standardized shipping containers facilitated seamless and efficient intermodal freight transport, leading to a surge in international trade. By the century's end, developing countries saw their share in world trade rise from a quarter to a third. 21st century commerce is increasingly technology-driven (see e-commerce, role of artificial intelligence and automation), globalized, intricately regulated, ethically responsible and sustainability-focused (e.g., climate-resilient trade practices), with multilateral economic integrations (like the European Union) or coalitions (like BRICS), gig economy and platform-based uberisation of services, geopolitical shifts and trade wars leading to its reconfiguration.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 69: Concentration of media ownership
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentration_of_media_ownership
Summary: Concentration of media ownership, also known as media consolidation or media convergence, is a process wherein fewer individuals or organizations control shares of the mass media. Research in the 1990s and early 2000s suggested then-increasing levels of consolidation, with many media industries already highly concentrated where a few companies own much of the market. However, since the proliferation of the Internet, smaller and more diverse new media companies maintain a larger share of the overall market. As a result, many of the references below on this page are of declining relevance in comparison to the influence of digital media companies such as Meta, ByteDance or X.
Globally, some of the largest media conglomerates include Bertelsmann, National Amusements (Paramount Global), Sony Group Corporation, News Corp, Comcast, The Walt Disney Company, Warner Bros. Discovery, Fox Corporation, Hearst Communications, Amazon (Amazon MGM Studios), Grupo Globo (South America), and Lagardère Group.
As of 2025, the largest media conglomerates in terms of revenue are Comcast NBCUniversal, The Walt Disney Company, Warner Bros. Discovery, and Paramount Skydance.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 70: Conglomerate (company)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conglomerate_(company)
Summary: A conglomerate () is a type of multi-industry company that consists of several different and unrelated business entities that operate in various industries. A conglomerate usually is a parent company that owns and controls many subsidiaries, which are legally independent but financially and strategically dependent on the parent company. Conglomerates are often large and multinational corporations that have a global presence and a diversified portfolio of products and services. Conglomerates can be formed by merger and acquisitions, spin-offs, or joint ventures.
Conglomerates are common in many countries and sectors, such as media, banking, energy, mining, manufacturing, retail, defense, and transportation. This type of organization aims to achieve economies of scale, market power, risk diversification, and financial synergy. However, they also face challenges such as complexity, bureaucracy, agency problems, and regulation.
The popularity of conglomerates has varied over time and across regions. In the United States, conglomerates became popular in the 1960s as a form of economic bubble driven by low interest rates and leveraged buyouts. However, many of them collapsed or were broken up in the 1980s due to poor performance, accounting scandals, and antitrust regulation. In contrast, conglomerates have remained prevalent in Asia, especially in China, Japan, South Korea, and India. In mainland China, many state-affiliated enterprises have gone through high value mergers and acquisitions, resulting in some of the highest value business transactions of all time. These conglomerates have strong ties with the government and preferential policies and access to capital.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 71: Consumer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer
Summary: A consumer is a person or a group who intends to order, or use purchased goods, products, or services primarily for personal, social, family, household and similar needs, who is not directly related to entrepreneurial or business activities.  The term most commonly refers to a person who purchases goods and services for personal use.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 72: Consumer behaviour
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_behaviour
Summary: Consumer behaviour is the study of individuals, groups, or organisations and all activities associated with the purchase, use and disposal of goods and services. It encompasses how the consumer's emotions, attitudes, and preferences affect buying behaviour, and how external cues—such as visual prompts, auditory signals, or tactile (haptic) feedback—can shape those responses. Consumer behaviour emerged in the 1940–1950s as a distinct sub-discipline of marketing, but has become an interdisciplinary social science that blends elements from psychology, sociology, social anthropology, anthropology, ethnography, ethnology, marketing, and economics (especially behavioural economics).
The study of consumer behaviour formally investigates individual qualities such as demographics, personality lifestyles, and behavioural variables (like usage rates, usage occasion, loyalty, brand advocacy, and willingness to provide referrals), in an attempt to understand people's wants and consumption patterns. Consumer behaviour also investigates on the influences on the consumer, from social groups such as family, friends, sports, and reference groups, to society in general (brand-influencers, opinion leaders).
Due to the unpredictability of consumer behavior, marketers and researchers use ethnography, consumer neuroscience, and machine learning, along with customer relationship management (CRM) databases, to analyze customer patterns. The extensive data from these databases allows for a detailed examination of factors influencing customer loyalty, re-purchase intentions, and other behaviors like providing referrals and becoming brand advocates. Additionally, these databases aid in market segmentation, particularly behavioral segmentation, enabling the creation of highly targeted and personalized marketing strategies.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 73: Consumer confusion
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_confusion
Summary: Consumer confusion is a state of mind that leads to consumers making imperfect purchasing decisions or lacking confidence in the correctness of their purchasing decisions.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 74: Consumer culture
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumerism
Summary: Consumerism is a socio-cultural and economic phenomenon that is typical of industrialized societies. It is characterized by the continuous acquisition of goods and services in ever-increasing quantities. In contemporary consumer society, the purchase and the consumption of products have evolved beyond the mere satisfaction of basic human needs, transforming into an activity that is not only economic but also cultural, social, and even identity-forming. It emerged in Western Europe and the United States during the Industrial Revolution and became widespread around the 20th century. In economics, consumerism refers to policies that emphasize consumption. It is the consideration that the free choice of consumers should strongly inform the choice by manufacturers of what is produced and how, and therefore influence the economic organization of a society.
Consumerism has been criticized by both individuals who choose other ways of participating in the economy (i.e. choosing simple living or slow living) and environmentalists concerned about its impact on the planet. Experts often assert that consumerism has physical limits, such as growth imperative and overconsumption, which have larger impacts on the environment. This includes direct effects like overexploitation of natural resources or large amounts of waste from disposable goods and significant effects like climate change. Similarly, some research and criticism focuses on the sociological effects of consumerism, such as reinforcement of class barriers and creation of inequalities.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 75: Consumer demand
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand
Summary: In economics, demand is the quantity of a good that consumers are willing and able to purchase at various prices during a given time. In economics "demand" for a commodity is not the same thing as "desire" for it. It refers to both the desire to purchase and the ability to pay for a commodity.  
Demand is always expressed in relation to a particular price and a particular time period since demand is a flow concept. Flow is any variable which is expressed per unit of time. Demand thus does not refer to a single isolated purchase, but a continuous flow of purchases.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 76: Consumer research
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing_research
Summary: Marketing research is the systematic gathering, recording, and analysis of qualitative and quantitative data about issues relating to marketing products and services. The goal is to identify and assess how changing elements of the marketing mix impacts customer behavior.
This involves employing a data-driven marketing approach to specify the data required to address these issues, then designing the method for collecting information and implementing the data collection process. After analyzing the collected data, these results and findings, including their implications, are forwarded to those empowered to act on them.
Market research, marketing research, and marketing are a sequence of business activities; sometimes these are handled informally.
The field of marketing research is much older than that of market research. Although both involve consumers, Marketing research is concerned specifically with marketing processes, such as advertising effectiveness and salesforce effectiveness, while market research is concerned specifically with markets and distribution. Two explanations given for confusing market research with marketing research are the similarity of the terms and the fact that market research is a subset of marketing research. Further confusion exists because of major companies with expertise and practices in both areas.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 77: Content marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_marketing
Summary: Content marketing is a form of marketing focused on creating, publishing, and distributing content for a targeted audience online. It is often used in order to achieve the following business goals: attract attention and generate leads, expand their customer base, generate or increase online sales, increase brand awareness or credibility, and engage a community of online users. Content marketing attracts new customers by creating and sharing valuable free content as well as by helping companies create sustainable brand loyalty, providing valuable information to consumers, and creating a willingness to purchase products from the company in the future.
Content marketing starts with identifying the customer's needs. After that, the information can be presented in a variety of long form and short form formats, including news, video, white papers, e-books, infographics, email newsletters, case studies, podcasts, how-to guides, question and answer articles, photos, blogs, etc. Examples of short form content include short blog posts and social media posts. 
Content marketing requires continuous delivery of large amounts of content, preferably within a content marketing strategy.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 78: Copywriting
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copywriting
Summary: Copywriting is the act or occupation of writing text for the purpose of advertising or other forms of marketing. Copywriting is aimed at selling products or services. The product, called copy or sales copy, is written content that aims to increase brand awareness and ultimately persuade a person or group to take a particular action.
Copywriters help to create billboards, brochures, catalogs, jingle lyrics, magazine and newspaper advertisements, sales letters and other direct mail, scripts for television or radio commercials, taglines, white papers, website and social media posts, pay-per-click, and other marketing communications. Copywriters aim to cater to the target audience's expectations while keeping the content and copy fresh, relevant, and effective.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 79: Corporate anniversary
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_anniversary
Summary: In marketing, a corporate anniversary is a celebration of a firm's continued existence after a particular number of years. The celebration is a media event which can help a firm achieve diverse marketing goals, such as promoting its corporate identity, boosting employee morale, building greater investor confidence, and encouraging sales. As a public relations opportunity, it is a way for a firm to tout past accomplishments while strengthening relationships with employees and customers and investors. The duration of the celebration itself can vary considerably, from an hour or day to activities happening throughout the year. Many businesses use an anniversary to express gratitude for past success. Generally, larger corporations have the means to stage more elaborate celebrations.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 80: Corporate censorship
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_censorship
Summary: Corporate censorship is censorship by corporations. It is when a spokesperson, employer, or business associate sanctions a speaker's speech by threat of monetary loss, employment loss, or loss of access to the marketplace. It is present in many different kinds of industries.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 81: Corporate propaganda
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_propaganda
Summary: Corporate propaganda refers to corporations or government entities that spread specific ideology in order to shape public opinion or perceptions and promote its own interests. The more well-known term, propaganda, refers to the spreading of information or ideas by someone who has an interest in changing another person's thoughts or actions. Two important early developers in this field were Harold Lasswell and Edward Bernays. Some scholars refer to propaganda terms such as  public relations, marketing, and advertising as Organized Persuasive Communication (OPC). Corporations must learn how to use OPC in order to successfully target and control audiences.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 82: Corporate social responsibility
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_social_responsibility
Summary: Corporate social responsibility (CSR) refers to companies conducting their core operations in a responsible and sustainable way to create a positive corporate social impact. It is a form of international private business self-regulation which aims to contribute to societal and environmental goals by reducing harm, for instance by reducing a company's carbon footprint or increasing positive outcomes for all stakeholders. It is related to the company's commitment to be ethical in its production, employment, and investment practices. 
While CSR often takes the form of a philanthropic, activist, or charitable nature by supporting volunteering through pro bono programs, community development, and by administering monetary grants to non-profit organizations for the public benefit, corporations have been seen shifting to a holistic and strategic approach. Strategic CSR is a long-term approach to creating a net positive social impact based on brand alignment, stakeholder integration and ethical behaviour. Moreover, some scholars and firms are using the term "creating shared value", an extension of CSR which allows for social obligations to be met while the company reaps a profit.
For publicly listed companies, CSR often takes the form of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) practices and reports, but many companies have pledged to go beyond that. In some countries, companies are mandated or incentivized by governments to measure and report their impact on society, the community, and/or the environment. In addition, national and international standards, laws, and business models have been developed to facilitate and incentivize this phenomenon. Various organizations have used their authority to push it beyond individual or industry-wide initiatives. Further, CSR has been considered a form of corporate self-regulation , shifting from voluntary decisions at the level of individual organizations to mandatory schemes at regional, national, and international levels. 
When focusing on corporate environmental responsibility, most firms use the term "sustainability" to explore the effort the company makes to reduce environmental harm such as by reducing waste and emissions, or by making a contribution through climate action and climate activism. Other companies focus more on their social impact, activism, or corporate citizenship. It is, therefore, important to know that CSR reports can take any of these names. 
Businesses  engage in CSR for strategic, ethical, or instrumental reasons. From a strategic perspective, CSR can contribute to firm performance, particularly when CSR is embedded straticially in the company, aligned with its brand, and occurs when the company utilises its market position to create impact Doing so, could lead to higher levels of financial and employee performance. These benefits accrue by increasing positive public relations and high ethical standards to reduce business and legal risk by taking responsibility for corporate actions. CSR strategies encourage the company to make a positive impact on the environment and stakeholders including consumers, employees, investors, communities, and others. From an ethical perspective, some businesses will adopt CSR policies and practices because of the ethical beliefs of senior management: for example, the CEO of outdoor-apparel company Patagonia, Inc. argues that harming the environment is ethically objectionable.

Proponents argue that corporations increase long-term profits by operating with a CSR perspective, while critics argue that CSR distracts from businesses' economic role. A 2000 study compared existing econometric studies of the relationship between social and financial performance, concluding that the contradictory results of previous studies reporting positive, negative, and neutral financial impact were due to flawed empirical analysis and claimed when the study is properly specified, CSR has a neutral impact on financial outcomes. Critics have questioned the "lofty" and sometimes "unrealistic expectations" of CSR, or observed that CSR is merely window-dressing, or an attempt to pre-empt the role of governments as a watchdog over powerful multinational corporations. In line with this critical perspective, political and sociological institutionalists became interested in CSR in the context of theories of globalization, neoliberalism, and late capitalism.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 83: Counter display unit
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counter_display_unit
Summary: A counter display unit (CDU) is a retail display unit normally placed on a shop counter to encourage consumer impulse purchases.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 84: Cover-up
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cover-up
Summary: A cover-up is an attempt, whether successful or not, to conceal evidence of wrongdoing, error, incompetence, or other embarrassing information. Research has distinguished personal cover-ups (covering up one's own misdeeds) from relational cover-ups (covering up someone else's misdeeds).
The expression is usually applied to people in positions of authority who abuse power to avoid or silence criticism or to deflect guilt of wrongdoing. Perpetrators of a cover-up (initiators or their allies) may be responsible for a misdeed, a breach of trust or duty, or a crime.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 85: Criticism of advertising
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_advertising
Summary: Advertising is a form of selling a product to a certain audience in which communication is intended to persuade an audience to purchase products, ideals or services regardless of whether they want or need them. While advertising can be seen as a way to inform the audience about a certain product or idea it also comes with a cost because the sellers have to find a way to show the seller interest in their product. It is not without social costs. Unsolicited commercial email and other forms of spam have become so prevalent that they are a major nuisance to internet users, as well as being a financial burden on internet service providers. Advertising increasingly invades public spaces, such as schools, which some critics argue is a form of child exploitation. Advertising frequently uses psychological pressure (for example, appealing to feelings of inadequacy) on the intended consumer, which may be harmful. As a result of these criticisms, the advertising industry has seen low approval rates in surveys and negative cultural portrayals.
Criticism of advertising is closely linked with criticism of media and often interchangeable. Critics can refer to advertising's:

audio-visual aspects (cluttering of public spaces and airwaves)
environmental aspects (pollution, oversize or overwrought packaging, increasing consumption)
political aspects (media dependency, free speech, censorship, the ability to influence narratives)
financial aspects (costs)
time-consuming and interruptive (even disruptive) aspects
social/moral/ethical aspects (sub-conscious influencing, invasion of privacy, increasing consumption and waste, target groups, certain products, honesty)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 86: Crowd manipulation
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowd_manipulation
Summary: Crowd manipulation is the intentional or unwitting use of techniques based on the principles of crowd psychology to engage, control, or influence the desires of a crowd in order to direct its behavior toward a specific action.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 87: Crowd psychology
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowd_psychology
Summary: Crowd psychology (or mob psychology) is a subfield of social psychology which examines how the psychology of a group of people differs from the psychology of any one person within the group. The study of crowd psychology looks into the actions and thought processes of both the individual members of the crowd and of the crowd as a collective social entity. The behavior of a crowd is much influenced by deindividuation (seen as a person's loss of responsibility) and by the person's impression of the universality of behavior, both of which conditions increase in magnitude with size of the crowd. Notable theorists in crowd psychology include Gustave Le Bon (1841-1931), Gabriel Tarde (1843-1904), and Sigmund Freud (1856-1939). Many of these theories are today tested or used to simulate crowd behaviors in normal or emergency situations. One of the main focuses in these simulation works aims to prevent crowd crushes and stampedes.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 88: Cult of personality
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cult_of_personality
Summary: A cult of personality, or a cult of the leader, is the result of an effort to create an idealized and heroic image of an admirable leader, often through unquestioning flattery and praise.
Historically, it has been developed through techniques such as the manipulation of the mass media, the dissemination of propaganda, the staging of spectacles, the manipulation of the arts, the instilling of patriotism, and government-organized demonstrations and rallies. A cult of personality is similar to apotheosis (deification), except that it is established through the use of modern social engineering techniques, it is usually established by the state or the party in one-party states and dominant-party states. Cults of personality often accompany the leaders of totalitarian or authoritarian governments. They can also be seen in some monarchies, theocracies, failed democracies, and even in liberal democracies.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 89: Culture jamming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_jamming
Summary: Culture jamming (sometimes also guerrilla communication) is a form of protest used by many anti-consumerist social movements to disrupt or subvert media culture and its mainstream cultural institutions, including corporate advertising. It attempts to "expose the methods of domination" of mass society.
Culture jamming employs techniques originally associated with Letterist International, and later Situationist International known as détournement. It uses the language and rhetoric of mainstream culture to subversively critique the social institutions that produce that culture. Tactics include editing company logos to critique the respective companies, products, or concepts they represent, or wearing fashion statements that criticize the current fashion trends by deliberately clashing with them.  Culture jamming often entails using mass media to produce ironic or satirical commentary about itself, commonly using the original medium's communication method. Culture jamming is also a form of subvertising.
Culture jamming aims to highlight and challenge the political assumptions underlying commercial culture, and argues that culture jamming is a response to socially imposed  conformity. Prominent examples of culture jamming include the adulteration of billboard advertising by the Billboard Liberation Front and contemporary artists such as Ron English. Culture jamming may involve street parties and protests. While culture jamming usually focuses on subverting or critiquing political and advertising messages, some proponents focus on a different form which brings together artists, designers, scholars, and activists to create works that transcend the status quo rather than merely criticize it.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 90: Customer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer
Summary: In sales, commerce, and economics, a customer (sometimes known as a client, buyer, or purchaser) is the recipient of a good, service, product, or an idea, obtained from a seller, vendor, or supplier via a financial transaction or an exchange for money or some other valuable consideration.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 91: Customer relationship management
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_relationship_management
Summary: Customer relationship management (CRM) is a strategic process that organizations use to manage, analyze, and improve their interactions with customers. By using data-driven insights, CRM helps businesses optimize communication, enhance customer satisfaction, and drive sustainable growth.
CRM systems compile data from a range of different communication channels, including a company's website, telephone (which many services come with a softphone), email, live chat, marketing materials and more recently, social media. They allow businesses to learn more about their target audiences and how to better cater to their needs, thus retaining customers and driving sales growth. CRM may be used with past, present or potential customers. The concepts, procedures, and rules that a corporation follows when communicating with its consumers are referred to as CRM. This complete connection covers direct contact with customers, such as sales and service-related operations, forecasting, and the analysis of consumer patterns and behaviours, from the perspective of the company.
The global customer relationship management market size is projected to grow from $101.41 billion in 2024 to $262.74 billion by 2032, at a CAGR of 12.6%
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 92: Customer to customer
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_to_customer
Summary: Customer to customer (C2C or consumer to consumer) markets provide a way to allow customers to interact with each other.  Traditional markets require business to customer relationships, in which a customer goes to the business in order to purchase a product or service. In customer to customer markets, the business facilitates an environment where customers can sell goods or services to each other. Other types of markets include business to business (B2B), business to government (B2G) and business to customer (B2C).
Consumer to consumer (or citizen-to-citizen) electronic commerce involves electronically facilitated transactions between consumers through some third party.  A common example is an online auction, in which a consumer posts an item for sale and other consumers bid to purchase it; the third party generally charges a flat fee or commission. The sites are only intermediaries, just there to match consumers. They do not have to check the quality of the products being offered.
Consumer to consumer (C2C) marketing is the creation of a product or service with the specific promotional strategy being for consumers to share that product or service with others as brand advocates based on the value of the product. The investment into conceptualising and developing a top-of-the-line product or service that consumers are actively looking for is equitable to retail pre-launch product awareness marketing.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 93: Database marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_marketing
Summary: Database marketing is a form of direct marketing that uses databases of customers or potential customers to generate personalized communications in order to promote a product or service for marketing purposes. The method of communication can be any addressable medium, as in direct marketing.
The distinction between direct and database marketing stems primarily from the attention paid to the analysis of data. Database marketing emphasizes the use of statistical techniques to develop models of customer behavior, which are then used to select customers for communications. As a consequence, database marketers also tend to be heavy users of data warehouses, because having a greater amount of data about customers increases the likelihood that a more accurate model can be built.
There are two main types of marketing databases, consumer databases, and business databases. Consumer databases are primarily geared towards companies that sell to consumers, often abbreviated as [business-to-consumer] (B2C) or BtoC.  Business marketing databases are often much more advanced in the information that they can provide.  This is mainly because business databases aren't restricted by the same privacy laws as consumer databases.
The "database" is usually name, address, and transaction history details from internal sales or delivery systems, or a bought-in compiled "list" from another organization, which has captured that information from its customers. Typical sources of compiled lists are charity donation forms, application forms for any free product or contest, product warranty cards, subscription forms, and credit application forms.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 94: Deception
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deception
Summary: Deception is the act of convincing of one or many recipients of untrue information. The person creating the deception knows it to be false while the receiver of the information does not. It is often done for personal gain or advantage.
Deceit and dishonesty can also form grounds for civil litigation in tort, or contract law (where it is known as misrepresentation or fraudulent misrepresentation if deliberate), or give rise to criminal prosecution for fraud.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 95: Deepfake
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepfake
Summary: Deepfakes (a portmanteau of 'deep learning' and 'fake') are images, videos, or audio that have been edited or generated using artificial intelligence, AI-based tools or audio-video editing software. They may depict real or fictional people and are considered a form of synthetic media, that is media that is usually created by artificial intelligence systems by combining various media elements into a new media artifact.
While the act of creating fake content is not new, deepfakes uniquely leverage machine learning and artificial intelligence techniques, including facial recognition algorithms and artificial neural networks such as variational autoencoders (VAEs) and generative adversarial networks (GANs). In turn, the field of image forensics has worked to develop techniques to detect manipulated images. Deepfakes have garnered widespread attention for their potential use in creating child sexual abuse material, celebrity pornographic videos, revenge porn, fake news, hoaxes, bullying, and financial fraud.
Academics have raised concerns about the potential for deepfakes to promote disinformation and hate speech, as well as interfere with elections. In response, the information technology industry and governments have proposed recommendations and methods to detect and mitigate their use. Academic research has also delved deeper into the factors driving deepfake engagement online as well as potential countermeasures to malicious application of deepfakes.
From traditional entertainment to gaming, deepfake technology has evolved to be increasingly convincing and available to the public, allowing for the disruption of the entertainment and media industries.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 96: Demand
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand
Summary: In economics, demand is the quantity of a good that consumers are willing and able to purchase at various prices during a given time. In economics "demand" for a commodity is not the same thing as "desire" for it. It refers to both the desire to purchase and the ability to pay for a commodity.  
Demand is always expressed in relation to a particular price and a particular time period since demand is a flow concept. Flow is any variable which is expressed per unit of time. Demand thus does not refer to a single isolated purchase, but a continuous flow of purchases.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 97: Demand chain
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand_chain
Summary: In business, a demand chain is the understanding and management of customer demand, in contrast to a supply chain. Madhani suggests that the demand chain "comprises all the demand processes necessary to understand, create, and stimulate customer demand". Cranfield School of Management academic Martin Christopher has suggested that "ideally the supply chain should become a demand chain", explaining that ideally all product logistics and processing should occur "in response to a known customer requirement".
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 98: Deplatforming
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deplatforming
Summary: Deplatforming, also known as no-platforming, is a boycott on an individual or group by removing the platforms used to share their information or ideas. The term is commonly associated with social media.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 99: Destination marketing
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Destination_marketing_organization
Summary: A destination marketing organization (DMO) is an organisation which promotes a location as an attractive travel destination. DMOs are known as tourist boards, tourism authorities or "Convention and Visitors Bureaus". They primarily exist to provide information to leisure travelers. Additionally, where a suitable infrastructure exists, they encourage event organizers to choose their location for meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions, collectively abbreviated as MICE.
DMOs are generally tied to the local government infrastructure, often with supporting funds being generated by specific taxes, such as hotel taxes, membership fees, and sometimes government subsidies. However, in many cases, the observed decline in tourism following cutbacks to public-sector expenditures has motivated the tourism industry to create a private sector coalition in order to provide the functions of a DMO.
With the arrival of the internet more and more Destination Management Companies adopted the term "visit"
and added it as a prefix to their city or country name. The phenomenon started in America in 1995 / 1996
and spread over the world with major organizations like the London Tourist Board 
adopting the concept after the turn of the century.
DMOs seek to build a destination image to promote their destinations. For any given travel situation, consumers are spoilt by choice of available destinations, and the images held of destination play a critical role in purchase decisions. Destination image therefore plays a major role in the competitiveness of travel destinations.


== References ==
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Link 100: Differentiation (economics)
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product_differentiation
Summary: In economics, strategic management and marketing, product differentiation (or simply differentiation) is the process of distinguishing a product or service from others to make it more attractive to a particular target market. This involves differentiating it from competitors' products as well as from a firm's other products. The concept was proposed by Edward Chamberlin in his 1933 book, The Theory of Monopolistic Competition.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

================================================================================
SUMMARY
================================================================================
Total links attempted: 100
Successfully processed: 100
Total URLs collected: 101

All URLs:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/24-hour_news_cycle
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Account-based_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Activism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Smith
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adam_Smith_Institute
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_agency
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_mail
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_management
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertising_slogan
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advertorial
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advocacy
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advocacy_group
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affinity_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agenda-setting_theory
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agricultural_Marketing_Service
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agricultural_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Airborne_leaflet_propaganda
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_facts
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alternative_media
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ambush_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Marketing_Association
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_business_history
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Annoyance_factor
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthropology
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Inc.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Applied_ethics
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/April_Fools%27_Day
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art_director
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Astroturfing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attack_ad
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Attribution_(marketing)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Audio_deepfake
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Direct-to-consumer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bandwagon_effect
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Targeted_advertising
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Big_lie
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Billboard
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_censorship
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boycott
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_ambassador
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_awareness
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_licensing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brand_management
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Branded_content
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Broadcast_law
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning_of_books_and_burying_of_scholars
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_administration
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Legal_person
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancel_culture
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Campaign_advertising
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cancel_culture
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cannibalization_(marketing)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canvassing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catch_and_kill
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Censorship
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Character_assassination
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Chartered_Institute_of_Marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christian_Gr%C3%B6nroos
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Civil_disobedience
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clayton_Christensen
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Co-creation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_calling
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commerce
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Concentration_of_media_ownership
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conglomerate_(company)
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_behaviour
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumer_confusion
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Consumerism
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marketing_research
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Copywriting
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_anniversary
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_censorship
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_propaganda
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corporate_social_responsibility
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counter_display_unit
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cover-up
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Criticism_of_advertising
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowd_manipulation
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crowd_psychology
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cult_of_personality
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Culture_jamming
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_relationship_management
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_to_customer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_marketing
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deception
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deepfake
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demand_chain
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deplatforming
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Destination_marketing_organization
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Product_differentiation